Provider execution
==================

The provider now handles a Job from input selection to result publication.
The API and model endpoint in the local proof are scripted HTTPS peers.
No live deployment or full-index benchmark is implied by that proof.

What it does
------------

The interpreter sees the complete Job specification and all attached Upload
descriptions. It can inspect bounded source facts, then chooses the Upload,
archive member or Bruker processing directory, reader and molecular formula.
It must explain its choice, or explain why it cannot choose a usable input.

The runner downloads Uploads selected for inspection or analysis, reusing each
download. It checks the received length and SHA-256 against the API grant
before exposing bytes to the offline worker.
Reader and formula rejections return to the same interpreter conversation.
An outage or model bug does not ask the LLM to invent a different input.

The model and candidate index stay loaded between healthy Attempts. Each
analysis gets a fresh graph-GA search. After a confirmed scientific-child stop,
the next admitted Job gets a fresh child. The interrupted analysis is never
rerun automatically.

What the result says
--------------------

Result schema: secs.elucidation.result.v1.

An analysed result records:

- The interpreter's final explanation.
- Each selected reader, formula and exact source identity, with its explanation.
- Rejected choices and their reading errors; the used choice is marked used.
- The verified length and SHA-256 of every acquired Upload.
- Ranked candidate SMILES and scores, actual GA counts and search settings.
- Spectrum preparation and configured inference mode and retrieval budget.

Scores and ppm endpoints are decimal strings because this provider's canonical
JSON encoder does not admit floating-point numbers. Compute mode does not
describe checkpoint or FAISS storage precision.

A cannot_analyse result contains the interpreter's explanation and selection
history, without invented candidates. This is a completed Attempt whose result
explains the scientific limitation, not an operationally failed Attempt.

Operational failures use the API failure code/message. Private diagnostics
identify the Attempt, exception class and code locations; they omit exception
text, source bytes, credentials and locals. API failure messages distinguish
requested shutdown, observed Job cancellation and scientific execution errors.

Recovery and shutdown
---------------------

The private journal retains one obligation: pending start, active work, or an
exact terminal command. A lost result receipt retries those exact bytes; it
does not repeat inference. A restarted active Attempt is reported interrupted.
Terminal publication retries are not cut off by the scientific work deadline.

Observed Job cancellation stops work. Closing a Job does not. A temporarily
unavailable lifecycle read is retried while the existing work deadline remains
in force. Only the supervisor may confirm that the scientific child exited.
An unconfirmed stop preserves its source files and stops new admission.

Recovery of active work or a terminal command does not load the model.
Replaying a pending start does require worker readiness: the previous request
may never have arrived, so replay can create a new Attempt.

After restart, leftover sources are removed only after a new ready worker
connection proves the old child was reaped. A healthy idle worker can also
release leftovers from its completed operation. Failed cleanup blocks the next
remote start rather than consuming another Job.

Signals stop admission. In-flight network operations finish or reach their
deadline; active scientific waits check shutdown at five-second intervals.
Keep the container stop grace longer than the configured work/startup budgets.
The example uses 1,900 seconds for its 1,800-second work budget. Forced process
termination still leaves the last confirmed journal record for recovery.

Deployment inputs
-----------------

compose/provider.yml follows nmrpeak-repro's separate provider/runner layout.
This two-service recipe is for Job execution, not a hello-only deployment.
It is not a claim of live API or GPU qualification.

The recipe assumes a local Linux Docker daemon without user-namespace remapping,
Compose, and a configured NVIDIA container runtime. Its numeric UID/GID and
private host-directory ownership must match. Rootless or remapped engines need
a separately verified ownership mapping; this recipe does not establish one.

Build existing offline inputs with make provider/image and
make packages/gpu/image. Neither target downloads dependencies. Use the
returned immutable image IDs for PROVIDER_IMAGE_REF and WORKER_IMAGE_REF.

Use the same default Docker context as the image builds, with DOCKER_HOST and
DOCKER_CONTEXT unset. Set a distinct Compose project name. After supplying the
recipe's explicit paths and identities, check its rendering without starting it:

  env -u DOCKER_HOST -u DOCKER_CONTEXT docker --context default compose \
    --project-name secs-provider -f compose/provider.yml config

No restart, deployment or credential installation is performed by test targets.

Provider inputs:

- Run make provider/deployment/init DEPLOYMENT=<name> to create private
  config/deployments/<name>/provider.toml and worker.toml from one committed
  HEAD revision. Initialization ignores working-tree edits and never overwrites
  an existing deployment. Review the files before use: their endpoints are
  examples, not a selected production service. No credentials, runtime state,
  containers, or downloads are created by this command.
- Use the initialized provider.toml as the provider configuration.
  Its schema is secs.provider.config.v1. Keep [execution] for this recipe.
- Mount the API-issued signing credential and interpreter key separately.
- Public CA trust is the default. For private trust, api.use_private_ca selects
  api-ca.crt; execution.interpreter_use_private_ca selects interpreter-ca.crt;
  execution.upload_store_use_private_ca selects upload-store-ca.crt.
  These independent files belong beside provider.toml. No TLS bypass is used.
- State, sources and socket directories must already exist, be private (0700),
  and be owned by the same nonroot UID/GID used by both containers.

Worker inputs:

- Use the initialized worker.toml and mount the existing complete checkpoint,
  candidate parquet/index pair, verified model cache, cache lock and verifier.
- Choose the one authorized GPU UUID. Inside the worker it is cuda:0.
- The model cache is verified before imports. Startup loads the existing index;
  it does not rebuild it or rehash the large index on every Job.

The provider has outbound networking and no GPU. Its configured HTTPS clients
do not follow redirects or ambient proxy settings. The Compose bridge itself
is not a destination allowlist. The worker has no network, provider credentials
or engine socket. Both receive only their declared mounts. Model artifacts are
read-only; only the private source/socket workspace is shared writable with the
worker. Preserve the journal and sources across restarts, using the same owner.

The supervisor relies on container lifecycle to kill all children if it dies.
Do not run it as an unsupervised host process. Normal socket reuse is protected
by an exclusive supervisor lock; another worker cannot displace a live listener.

Local proof
-----------

make test/provider covers API binding, acquisition, interpretation, exact
terminal replay, journal ownership, child termination and runtime wiring.

make test/provider/e2e runs two networkless containers. HTTPS peers live on the
controller's loopback interface. The production service loop publishes hello,
downloads a real spectrum in a fixture ZIP, corrects a wrong-nucleus choice,
runs the real checkpoint with an eight-molecule FAISS index and one GA
generation, then retries a lost completion receipt without repeating the work.
The test removes its exact containers before deleting its private workspace.

This proves local workflow integration. It does not measure live interpreter
selection quality, full-index ranking quality, GPU speed, or deployed API
acceptance. The fixture observes emitted signing headers; cryptographic
conformance is covered by the separate provider signing tests.
